Hello this is Kiril from for ex-parte dot com and welcome to the twenty six tutorial on algorithmic
trading for beginners in the previous tutorial we started programming our very first algorithmic sharing
system and we did this blue part of our overview diagram and today we're going to do.
We're not going to do the read part yet.
We're going to do the green part.
So I'll move to the detailed diagram over here.
And so basically we're going to skip this part and we're going to just connect to the green part right
away so we're not going to delete any or open orders if they are if they are still open which is going
to code this green bit.
But we will leave out the moving average filter for now.
So we'll just code the entry condition for by and say a cell and the failsafe mechanism.
And that's what we're going to do today so let's get straight to it here in front of me I have this
simple system code which we started in the previous tutorial.
I saved a copy as simple systems turned 25 just for our future reference if we need to go back to it
and see how it looked at that stage.
But we are going to be building upon this code and so we'll be working in the system a simple system
door for file.
We had this alert for testing purposes and testing was successful so we'll get rid of it now to preserve
space and it has no functional function anymore.
We're where you see this common core of the logarithmic system that's exactly where we will be coding
today.
So I'll remove that for now.
We don't need that as well.
So here this is where we'll be writing our code.
So let's go to the diagram and look at the green part.
So what we need to check is if the price is lower than it was at the open of the market for the day.
So how we do that is we go if
so to access the price we need to use the open variable so open.
There are four variables or there are four different variables to which describe the price.
The prices of every channel are open close
high and low.
So I'm just writing these out for you.
So basically each one of them describes the relevant price of a candle but which candle you need to
specify in these brackets already here.
So this is actually an array but we won't be talking about areas in this course for beginners Aeros
we will be discussing further in the more advanced course of them kill for which you can also find an
adult for Explore dot com.
But in this course we'll just look at these square brackets as somewhere where we can enter a number
of the candle that we want to get the price for.
So in this case we will be looking at the open price and the way it works is.
So I'll just quickly jump to the terminal.
So if we change this to candle's and we zoom in a bit then in emule for him in trade for the way it's
structured is this candle over here to insert text that's right.
This candle over here is candle number zero.
That's candle number sir.
This one than the one next to it.
Is candle number one
and the one next to it is candle number two.
And so on and so basically the candles are numbered from right to left and so the current candle is
always candle number one zero then the one next to is number one number next to number two and so on.
So this one would be three four five six seven eight.
So if you want the opening price of the candle then you would type in opening them in square brackets
you'd type in eight and you would get this price over here at which it was kind of was opened or if
you want the low price of the seventh candle you type in low square brackets seven and you'd get this
presser here.
So for us when the expert advisors working we want to know if we are in this if we're in this modular
here than the current hour is equal to Starro So it's a 9000 So that means we are exactly in this candell
we're ready there.
And so for us in that hypothetical situation that will be the zero candle that will be the one candle
and that will be the two candle and so on.
So that's where we are in no we're in that candle so we need to look for the opening in zero price so
we want to know at which price this candle opened and we will get that price over there.
So if we want to zoom in a bit more that's better.
So that third fourth fifth sixth seventh eighth or ninth tenth So that's in this case there was 10 Cannell
So our algorithm will be actually working like this.
It will see this as a candle number zero candle number one candle number two and so on.
So two three four five six seven eight nine.
So this candle will be candle number nine.
And therefore we want to compare the open price of this candle and the opening price of the start of
the day which is actually the ninth candle.
So we want to see if our what does our algorithm tell us is price lower.
So we want to see if open zero is less than open.
Candle number nine.
And that old compared this open price to this open price.
But what we can enhance this a bit more by checking the following condition we can instead of checking
open number nine.
We want to check open start our Because Taar hour is nine.
But if say the trader changes start hour 10 or 12 we want this value to change as well so we're going
to change this.
None of start out.
I hope that makes sense that we're actually replacing and nine Wipha nine but parameterised nine.
So this if this can now change if the trader changes it and makes the algorithm more versatile.
So if the trader wants to look at this can also basically he'll look like that look at it the trading
system that way this will be 0 1 2 3 and this will be candle number 14 or 15 or whatever it is at this
stage.
So that's that's our first check over here.
We're checking if the price is lower than it was at the start of the day today and now we're going to
ignore these two checks for below above and we're going to implement are sending of orders.
So if that is the case then we will open a buy order else if it's not the case then we will open a sell
order and I'm intentionally ignoring the situation where open is equal to open because that is very
rare and I don't mind if it falls under this case and Alegate I know algorithm if you want to filter
it out completely.
So if you want to be fair on both sides you would put here if open is greater so that would filter out
the situation when they're actually equal.
But I'm not going to talk about that.
So just to make the code simpler at this stage.
So what we're going to do is we're going to send our order to send an order we need a ticket variable.
And we're also going to make it static.
So our function remembers the value of ticket through our it's execution.
We're going to set ticket desire initially and then here we're going to use order send to send a ticket.
So here instead of typing like we did previously Uri's is dollar or in this case British bungees dollar
What are we going to do is we're going to use a function which tells us which chart the program is working
on the Grisman trading systems work on this function is simple and that just basically returns
the name of the symbol where the trading algorithm is being executed.
CMT is which way want to buy or sell so is by volume so volume to get the volume we want the trader
to actually be able to change the volume because based on your number the amount of funds on your accounts
you might want to set low volume.
So we're going to introduce an external variable and will be a lot of lots and it will sort of Tujuan
an issue we don't even need this point so will just set it to 1 and then we will use it here as the
volume of the transaction the price that we were at which we wanted to open the order.
Well the buy orders are always open to ask price slippage we're going to set it and Pipps and then stop
loss.
We're going to we're going to let the trader in put a stop loss and take profit as well so we'll have
an extra in in take profit here which will set or originally say at 40 Pipps and we'll have an extra
and stop loss here as well.
We said it's 40 pips.
I'm just going to make this look a bit better.
Okay that looks better.
All right.
So start out as 9 to profit 40 40 lots one.
And here we will use those take and stop loss and as you recall we always do a calculation Stop-Loss
bid minus Stop-Loss times point and bid plus take off times point
anything else we can put a column into some
said by simple system so we know that these orders have been set in the system.
Once again we're ignoring the last three parameters award or send because we don't need them at this
stage.
If you recall we used to calculate this as a separate variable in our scripts when we were practicing
to send orders.
But you don't have to do that you can put the calculation right in here and then it will be sent.
So we first calculate it and then will be sent off as a parameter to or reset.
So it's up to you if you want to take this out and you want to have a variable here which is which would
be double Stop-Loss level and calculate like that and then put this variable in here instead.
It's up to you can do that.
That is more comfortable for you.
But I was just going to leave it inside because it takes that space and it looks it looks better from
my perspective.
So here we'll have a say failsafe mechanism if ticket is less than zero.
This is a standard one we've been coding for a while now no error sending order.
Exclamation mark done.
So that's our Send.
Order order sent for a
buy order.
Now we're going to do the same for a sell order we'll just copy that to be a bit quicker.
And when you when you do copy there's always a few things you have to change after change this to open
sell.
A lot stays the same the price at which you buy or sell is different.
You buy you open bid sell orders at the bid price the slippage is the same again.
This is important.
This changes to OSC plus stop loss because it's a cell orders it's upside down the stop losses above.
And this changes to OSC minus a profit take profit is below the order and the commons stays the same.
So that's just a quick way of keeping your code and that's it.
So we can compile that no errors or warnings and now we can go back to the terminal.
Well it was just quickly check that we've done everything here.
So we've checked that we've been on these two for now so going straight through We've opened a did a
fail safe open a solid fail safe and that's all within this block.
If it is the first check.
So we have compiled that list go to the terminal and see how this works.
So I'm going to bring up the magnifiers so that you can see what I'm doing and I'm using the chair strategy
tester over here and I'm going to select our simple system there is expert properties I'm not going
to change.
They can say the same period H1.
It's British pound dollar control points.
We're going to change.
Actually we'll keep we'll keep control points it's just going to be a bit faster.
Date doesn't matter.
Make sure you click visual mode and spread can be current and then it will set the speed to 31 and we
just go ahead and click Start right click properties.
Taking off the grid.
So it's not in our way and now we're just going to follow our chart.
As you can see first order has been opened.
It is a buy order.
So I'm going to show the period separators and so you can see it is legitimately buy order because no
price is less than it was at the start of the day.
Here again to buy order because price listen as you can see they've closed both profitably.
This is going to move this a bit.
Apologies if if I'm moving a bit too fast I'll try to slow down.
All right.
So 09:00 is approaching let's see which way should be sell order.
That's correct because the current price is above the price at which order was opened and that's the
seller.
So it looks like it's working right.
Are we going to deep go a bit deeper into testing in the Tauriel off to the next one.
And understand how all of this is working how we test like a better strategies.
But that's all for today.
Hope you enjoyed this tutorial and you're feeling some sort of satisfaction from your programming efforts
because your system is actually finally yielding some results and I hope to see at the next tutorial.
Until then happy coding.